.. _generic_wrapper:

generic_wrapper
===============
.. include_body

#COMMAND# -- #PROJECT# #LANGUAGE# wrapper compiler

SYNTAX
------

#COMMAND# [-showme|-showme:compile|-showme:link] ...

OPTIONS
-------

--showme
   This option comes in several different variants (see below). None of
   the variants invokes the underlying compiler; they all provide
   information on how the underlying compiler would have been invoked
   had *--showme* not been used. The basic *--showme* option outputs the
   command line that would be executed to compile the program. **NOTE:**
   If a non-filename argument is passed on the command line, the
   *-showme* option will *not* display any additional flags. For
   example, both "#COMMAND# --showme" and "#COMMAND# --showme
   my_source.c" will show all the wrapper-supplied flags. But "#COMMAND#
   --showme -v" will only show the underlying compiler name and "-v".

--showme:compile
   Output the compiler flags that would have been supplied to the
   #LANGUAGE# compiler.

--showme:link
   Output the linker flags that would have been supplied to the
   #LANGUAGE# compiler.

--showme:command
   Outputs the underlying #LANGUAGE# compiler command (which may be one
   or more tokens).

--showme:incdirs
   Outputs a space-delimited (but otherwise undecorated) list of
   directories that the wrapper compiler would have provided to the
   underlying #LANGUAGE# compiler to indicate where relevant header
   files are located.

--showme:libdirs
   Outputs a space-delimited (but otherwise undecorated) list of
   directories that the wrapper compiler would have provided to the
   underlying linker to indicate where relevant libraries are located.

--showme:libs
   Outputs a space-delimited (but otherwise undecorated) list of library
   names that the wrapper compiler would have used to link an
   application. For example: "mpi open-rte open-pal util".

--showme:version
   Outputs the version number of Open MPI.

--showme:help
   Output a brief usage help message.

See the man page for your underlying #LANGUAGE# compiler for other
options that can be passed through #COMMAND#.

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Conceptually, the role of these commands is quite simple: transparently
add relevant compiler and linker flags to the user's command line that
are necessary to compile / link #PROJECT# programs, and then invoke the
underlying compiler to actually perform the command.

As such, these commands are frequently referred to as "wrapper"
compilers because they do not actually compile or link applications
themselves; they only add in command line flags and invoke the back-end
compiler.

Background
----------

Open MPI is comprised of two software layers: OPAL (Open Portable Access
Layer), and OMPI (Open MPI). There are wrapper compilers for each layer;
each layer's wrapper only links in the libraries relevant for that
layer. Specifically, each layer provides the following wrapper
compilers:

OPAL
   *opalcc* and *opalc++*

OMPI
   *mpicc*, *mpic++*, *mpicxx*, *mpiCC* (only on systems with
   case-senstive file systems), and *mpifort* (and its legacy/deprecated
   names *mpif77* and *mpif90*). Note that *mpic++*, *mpicxx*, and
   *mpiCC* all invoke the same underlying C++ compiler with the same
   options. All are provided as compatibility with other MPI
   implementations.

Fortran Notes
-------------

The Fortran wrapper compiler for MPI (*mpifort*, and its
legacy/deprecated names *mpif77* and *mpif90*) can compile and link MPI
applications that use any/all of the MPI Fortran bindings: *mpif.h*, the
*mpi* module, and the *mpi_f08* module (assuming Open MPI was installed
with support for each of these Fortran bindings). Specifically: it is no
longer necessary to use different wrapper compilers for applications
that use *mpif.h* vs. applications that use the *mpi* module -- just use
*mpifort* for all Fortran MPI applications.

Note, however, that the Fortran compiler may require additional
command-line options to enforce a specific Fortran dialect. For example,
in some versions of the IBM XLF compiler, if xlf90 is the underlying
Fortran compiler, *-qfixed* may be necessary to compile fixed-format
Fortran source files.

Finally, note that *mpifort* will be inoperative and will return an
error on use if Fortran support was not built into the MP Ilayer.

Overview
--------

*#COMMAND#* is a convenience wrappers for the underlying #LANGUAGE#
compiler. Translation of an #PROJECT# program requires the linkage of
the #PROJECT#-specific libraries which may not reside in one of the
standard search directories of ld(1). It also often requires the
inclusion of header files what may also not be found in a standard
location.

*#COMMAND#* passes its arguments to the underlying #LANGUAGE# compiler
along with the -I, -L and -l options required by #PROJECT# programs.

The #PROJECT# Team *strongly* encourages using the wrapper compilers
instead of attempting to link to the #PROJECT# libraries manually. This
allows the specific implementation of #PROJECT# to change without
forcing changes to linker directives in users' Makefiles. Indeed, the
specific set of flags and libraries used by the wrapper compilers
depends on how #PROJECT# was configured and built; the values can change
between different installations of the same version of #PROJECT#.

Indeed, since the wrappers are simply thin shells on top of an
underlying compiler, there are very, very few compelling reasons *not*
to use *#COMMAND#*. When it is not possible to use the wrappers
directly, the *-showme:compile* and *-showme:link* options should be
used to determine what flags the wrappers would have used. For example:

shell$ cc -c file1.c \`mpicc -showme:compile\`

shell$ cc -c file2.c \`mpicc -showme:compile\`

shell$ cc file1.o file2.o \`mpicc -showme:link\` -o my_mpi_program

NOTES
-----

It is possible to make the wrapper compilers multi-lib aware. That is,
the libraries and includes specified may differ based on the compiler
flags specified (for example, with the GNU compilers on Linux, a
different library path may be used if -m32 is seen versus -m64 being
seen). This is not the default behavior in a standard build, but can be
activated (for example, in a binary package providing both 32 and 64 bit
support). More information can be found at:

https://github.com/open-mpi/ompi/wiki/compilerwrapper3264

FILES
-----

The string that the wrapper compilers insert into the command line
before invoking the underlying compiler are stored in a text file
created by #PROJECT# and installed to
*$pkgdata/#COMMAND#-wrapper-data.txt*, where *$pkgdata* is typically
*$prefix/share/openmpi*, and *$prefix* is the top installation directory
of #PROJECT#.

It is rarely necessary to edit this file, but it can be examined to gain
insight into what flags the wrappers are placing on the command line.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
----------- ---------

By default, the wrappers use the compilers that were selected when
#PROJECT# was configured. These compilers were either found
automatically by Open MPI's "configure" script, or were selected by the
user in the CC, CXX, F77, and/or FC environment variables before
"configure" was invoked. Additionally, other arguments specific to the
compiler may have been selected by configure.

These values can be selectively overridden by either editing the text
files containing this configuration information (see the **FILES**
section), or by setting selected environment variables of the form
"#PROJECT_SHORT#_value".

Valid value names are:

CPPFLAGS
   Flags added when invoking the preprocessor (C or C++)

LDFLAGS
   Flags added when invoking the linker (C, C++, or Fortran)

LIBS
   Libraries added when invoking the linker (C, C++, or Fortran)

CC
   C compiler

CFLAGS
   C compiler flags

CXX
   C++ compiler

CXXFLAGS
   C++ compiler flags

FC
   Fortran compiler

FCFLAGS
   Fortran compiler flags
