.. _MPI_Get_count:

MPI_Get_count
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
====

:ref:`MPI_Get_count`  - Gets the number of top-level elements received.

Syntax
======

C Syntax
--------

.. code:: c

   #include <mpi.h>

   int MPI_Get_count(const MPI_Status *status, MPI_Datatype datatype,
       int *count)

Fortran Syntax
--------------

.. code:: fortran

   USE MPI
   ! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'

   MPI_GET_COUNT(STATUS, DATATYPE, COUNT, IERROR)
       INTEGER STATUS(MPI_STATUS_SIZE), DATATYPE, COUNT, IERROR

Fortran 2008 Syntax
-------------------

.. code:: fortran

   USE mpi_f08

   MPI_Get_count(status, datatype, count, ierror)
       TYPE(MPI_Status), INTENT(IN) :: status
       TYPE(MPI_Datatype), INTENT(IN) :: datatype
       INTEGER, INTENT(OUT) :: count
       INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: ierror

Input Parameters
================

-  ``status`` : Return status of receive operation (status).
-  ``datatype`` : Datatype of each receive buffer element (handle).

Output Parameters
=================

-  ``count`` : Number of received elements (integer).
-  ``IERROR`` : Fortran only: Error status (integer).

Description
===========

Returns the number of entries received. (We count entries, each of type
``datatype``, not bytes.) The ``datatype`` argument should match the
argument provided by the receive call that set the ``status`` variable.
(As explained in Section 3.12.5 in the MPI-1 Standard, "Use of General
Datatypes in Communication," :ref:`MPI_Get_count`  may, in certain
situations, return the value :ref:`MPI_UNDEFINED` .)

The ``datatype`` argument is passed to :ref:`MPI_Get_count`  to improve
performance. A message might be received without counting the number of
elements it contains, and the ``count`` value is often not needed. Also,
this allows the same function to be used after a call to :ref:`MPI_Probe` .

Notes
=====

If the size of the ``datatype`` is zero, this routine will return a
``count`` of zero. If the amount of data in ``status`` is not an exact
multiple of the size of ``datatype`` (so that ``count`` would not be
integral), a ``count`` of :ref:`MPI_UNDEFINED`  is returned instead.

Errors
======

If the value to be returned is larger than can fit into the ``count``
parameter, an :ref:`MPI_ERR_TRUNCATE`  error is raised.

Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.

Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
:ref:`MPI_Comm_set_errhandler` ; the predefined error handler
:ref:`MPI_ERRORS_RETURN`  may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.


.. seealso:: :ref:`MPI_Get_elements` 
